Previously on The Affair...
I don't want to have to pay
the rent by myself every month.
Let's just go get married
at city hall tonight.
I want a wedding. at
my grandparents' house.
Whitney. this marriage thing.
you don't have to do it. you know.
But. actually. Dad. I
do. because if I don't.
then Colin has to
leave the country.
I'm desperate for a date
to my opening tomorrow.
- Dashiell Boucicault.
- Hi.
He likes to watch.
He could give you a gallery.
- I'm married.
- Thank you for finally telling me.
- That's it?
- What do you want me to say?
- Doesn't matter. You love me. too.
- Oh. it does matter.
And I don't forgive you.
And how can I tell you I love
you? I don't even know you.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
You're working so calmly in
the place where your mother died.
You were right.
She died at the jetty.
Why was your dad obsessing about
a Marine named Benjamin Cruz?
I think he killed her.
♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ At the moment of my death ♪
♪ The echo I created ♪
♪ Outlasted my last breath ♪
♪ My voice. it made
an avalanche ♪
♪ And buried a
man I never knew ♪
♪ And when he died.
his widowed bride ♪
♪ Met your daddy
and they made you ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do
And that's be the wave that I am ♪
♪ And then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do
And that's be the wave that I am ♪
♪ And then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do
And that's be the wave that I am ♪
♪ And then sink
back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the o... ♪
♪ Well. it sure took forever ♪
♪ But the summer finally came ♪
♪ Felt like walking
with a stranger ♪
♪ I didn't even know her name ♪
♪ Pretty soon I
grew accustomed ♪
♪ To her warm and sunny way ♪
♪ Pretty soon I would forget ♪
♪ About those
frigid winter days ♪
♪ If you just stay true... ♪
Thank God you're here!
Your grandfather's
been driving me bonkers.
- Noah.
- Margaret.
- Where's Helen?
- Oh. I told you. Grandma.
She couldn't come.
She had to work.
Well. that's just disgusting.
- I don't think so.
- Well. of course it is.
This is your wedding.
What could be more important
than your wedding. Whitney?
I swear I brought your
mother up better than that.
I really did.
Oh. well. She's a lost cause.
You're my only hope
for happiness now.
Oh! Come upstairs. I've laid
out all the bridal magazines.
Noah. take Whitney's things to the
blue room. You're in the basement.
Oh. and see if you can find
Bruce. He'd be thrilled to see you.
Hey. Hey. Bruce.
- Hi.
- Hello... hello.
Uh...
who are you?
Uh. Noah.
Noah. Noah Solloway?
- I'm your ex...
- Oh. oh. Yes. of course.
I'm so sorry. Uh. Bruce Butler.
Margaret told me
you were coming.
The writer.
She says you've
published multiple books.
- That's right. yeah.
- Wow. that's impressive.
You know. there's
a great expression.
Uh...
"No one has one
book in him. but..."
Um. It's. uh...
I think it's. "Everyone
has one book in them.
Almost nobody has two."
Oh. Oh.
That's not very nice.
Uh. you know. I always
wanted to be a writer.
but there never seemed to
be enough hours in the day.
Yeah.
Are you hungry?
I was craving some.
uh. some of these. uh...
- some of these...
- Here.
- Bruce. let me make those for you.
- No. No. no. you're our guest. you know.
Have some coffee.
Uh. I have no idea
how to use that machine.
Sure. I'll make some.
Um. are you. uh. you married?
Uh. no. Divorced.
Twice. actually.
Well. that's probably why
you have so much time to write.
I'm more of a
family man. myself.
Bruce. no!
- Bruce!
- Oh. Jesus.
It's okay.
- No...
- I just. I just wanted to...
It's all right. it's all right.
We're trying to set boundaries
for Bruce. some new expectations.
While you're here. I'd appreciate
it if you could help with that.
I'm sorry. I didn't...
I didn't know.
Well. now you do.
Hi.
What are you doing here?
- I'm getting married.
- What? To this fellow?
Why. Helly-Belly.
that's fantastic.
Does this mean that
you've finally broken up
with that kid from Pennsylvania.
the one that was practically a mute?
Bruce. this is Whitney. She's...
Helen is your daughter.
This is your granddaughter.
G-Granddaughter?
I can't do this anymore.
It's okay. Margaret. it's okay.
Let's focus on the wedding. Uh...
Whitney has this huge agenda for
us. and. uh. she needs your help.
Uh. that's right. Grandma.
Um. I need to
decide on a florist.
I've narrowed it down to three.
but I'm sure you'll have an opinion.
Um. I need to
figure out a caterer.
I wanted to find somebody
who could do vegan options.
I don't know if
you know anybody.
And. um... Oh. well.
we already got a tent.
Oh. that reminds me.
The bill for the tent came.
Margaret. I'm... I thought
I was doing the catering.
and you and Bruce were
gonna pay for the tent.
Noah. we can't pay
for this. It's $20.000.
We don't have any money.
And whose fault is
that. Marie Antoinette?
Whitney. I just
had a splendid idea.
Why don't I call Dean
at our tennis club?
They do a marvelous brunch.
And if we do the wedding
reception outside of peak hours.
I'm sure we can get a
discount on the cabana.
They have a waffle station and
a make-your-own-omelet bar.
Excuse me. please.
Okay. Margaret. the
wedding is happening here.
Okay? So. if you want to help.
help us figure out a
way to make that happen.
Hey.
We can't afford a
wedding. can we?
No one can afford a
wedding. not really.
We can figure it out.
No. I need to get
back to reality.
I... Work has been crazy. I had
to miss three days to be here.
Andrea already
wants to fucking kill me.
It's fine. We'll just...
we'll get married at city hall.
Come on. Whitney. you've been
talking about having a wedding
in this house since
before you were in braces.
I already found a red-eye
that we can get on tonight.
It has seats available.
Give me six hours.
okay? Let's at least try.
Then if you still want to go to
city hall. then we'll go to city hall.
Come on. Have you got a pen?
Right. what's the first thing?
- Um...
- Tent.
Okay. I just received the
last part of my advance.
and I can't think of a
better thing to spend it on.
- Dad. no.
- So that's that done.
- Next?
- Dad. you don't get it.
A tent is no good if you
don't have things to put in it.
Backyard weddings
are so expensive
because you have to pay for
every single little thing. See?
Okay.
Let's start with plates.
Well. this house has got
to have plenty of those.
I always hoped your
mother would inherit this.
but she insists
on feeding you all
from earthenware as if
she grew up on a riverbank.
But no matter. because now it'll
go to someone who appreciates it.
- Thank you. Grandma.
- This is helpful.
Thanks. What's next?
Oh. I have an appointment
at an East Hampton bridal boutique
at 2:00. but it's crazy expensive.
- I think we should cancel it.
- You don't have a dress yet?
Perfect. Come on. let's go.
Oh. Margaret. can
we borrow your car?
- Only if Whitney drives.
- Why?
Because the last time you drove a car
in Montauk. you killed Scott Lockhart.
So. what do you want
to do about music?
You want dancing. right?
Honestly. I kind of
wanted a flash mob.
- What?
- You know. a flash mob?
It's. like. a surprise dance.
but everyone knows the steps.
How could everybody know
the steps to a surprise dance?
Because somebody teaches
them ahead of time. and it's like a...
Never mind.
Oh. look.
We have to stop and see what
they've done to the Lobster Roll.
- No. Whitney. we don't have time.
- Yes. we do. Come on. It'll be hilarious.
Hi. we okay here?
- Not as friendly as they used to be.
- Yeah.
Hey. remember when Stacey
almost choked and mom saved her?
What?
Yeah. you remember.
We were sitting right there.
and Trevor and Stacey
were playing that game.
and then Stacey put
a marble in her mouth.
No. it wasn't. uh. it wasn't
your mom who saved her.
It was Alison.
What?
- No. that's not how I remember it at all.
- No. I'm pretty sure it was her.
Stacey was choking
and Alison was right there.
So. was that the
day you met Alison?
Yeah. I think it was.
So. you bonded over the fact that
Stacey almost choked to death?
Whitney. if you ever want
to talk about what happened
- between Alison and me...
- Yeah. sure.
I do. actually. Go ahead.
Well. it's not... I didn't exactly
have a prepared speech. but...
Yeah. that's what I thought.
No. I mean. if you want
to ask questions about it...
- Stop.
- Noah?
Luisa. hi.
- Hey.
- Hey. you remember Whitney. my daughter?
Yeah. of course. Uh. I babysat
you one summer at the Butlers'.
I remember. Nice to see you.
Yeah. we're in town planning
Whitney's wedding. if you can believe it.
Cool. Congratulations.
Thank you.
So. this is different.
Yeah. It's officially in the
hands of the new owners now.
I just came by to empty a
few things out of the office.
Ah. End of an era.
Yep.
I have to get going.
What's. uh. what's next for you?
I'm going back to New York.
- Really? Wow.
- Mm-hmm.
I can't believe you got
Cole to go to the city.
We're separated. Noah.
He and Joanie are
moving to Vermont.
This afternoon. actually.
so I have to get going.
Congratulations on
your wedding. Good luck.
I'll be right back.
No. Dad. she doesn't
want to talk to us.
Hey. Luisa. I'm sorry
if I offended you there.
- I had no idea.
- It's fine.
That's terrible
about you and Cole.
Well. the writing was
on the wall. wasn't it?
Look. I was wondering. have
you any idea when they're leaving?
- Why?
- 'Cause I want to see Joanie.
You can't just waltz
in and out of her life
- when it's convenient.
- I know that. I know that.
I raised her as my own for
two years. I care about her.
Noah. I don't feel like
getting in the middle of this.
No. I understand. If you could
just tell me when they're leaving.
then I can swing by. and if Cole
doesn't want me to see her. that's fine.
I just... I don't want her
to think I just disappeared.
They're leaving at 5:00.
Thanks.
I'm sorry about how it
turned out here. and...
I hope there are
good things ahead.
Noah. I babysat your kids.
My mother worked at your house.
Don't pretend we're friends.
- Hey. can I get a menu. please?
- You order on that.
♪ And death
grabbed him so quiet ♪
♪ It didn't even make a sound ♪
♪ As far as I could see
Were dead leaves... ♪
Hey. just pull over
right here. will you?
- What. here?
- Yeah. Just for a second.
♪ Pretty soon I grow a cold ♪
♪ And hollow
feeling in my heart ♪
♪ Pretty soon. me
and my sunny day ♪
♪ Will have to part ♪
Hey. you think these would
look good in a bouquet?
Uh. you know that's
poison ivy. right?
- This is not poison ivy.
- Not the stuff you got in your hand. man.
The three-leafed plants that are all
around where you were secret gardening.
Poison ivy doesn't
grow in the winter.
Oh. yeah. It definitely does.
Oh. fuck.
Yay!
- Are you Mr. Solloway?
- Yeah. Hi.
Yeah. they told me at the front
that Whitney might be back here.
- She sure is. Welcome.
- Thank you.
Hi. Dad.
- Hey. Whit. How's it going?
- Good.
Oh. thanks.
It is so cute that you're here.
We almost never
see dads in the shop.
- What do you do?
- He's a writer.
Ooh. Anything I'd know?
- I doubt it.
- He's being very modest.
He has a movie coming
out starring Sasha Mann.
Sasha Mann?
I fucking love Sasha Mann. wow.
Hey. Hannah. could you give
me a hand with these clamps?
Coming.
Fuck.
Well?
What do you think?
Oh. Whit.
You look beautiful.
Thanks. Dad.
You guys are gonna make
the cutest father-daughter ever.
Wow. Whitney. it's 19.
but I'll knock it down
to 17 because it's...
it's just so... it's perfect.
That's. uh...
Seventeen. as in thousand?
Mm. sometimes dads
just need a little convincing.
Do you mind pulling a
few less expensive options?
Uh. Lizzie. can you
come here a second?
Oh. sweetheart.
You are front-cover.
Martha-Stewart gorgeous.
- Isn't it perfect?
- Mm-hmm.
Whitney thinks so. too.
Actually. I was wondering if you
could pull some cheaper options.
Ah. she is such a doll.
Is she your first
to get married?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. So. like. what price
range were you thinking?
Uh... I don't know. I...
He's a big screenwriter.
He works with Sasha Mann.
Really?
Let me ask you
something. Mr. Hollywood.
When will there ever
be a more important time
to splurge than for your
eldest daughter's wedding?
She loves this dress.
Uh... look. maybe.
maybe I can. um...
Don't. Dad. It's
okay. It's okay.
I'm gonna change.
I'm sorry. what...
what's happening here?
I didn't know that dresses
were this expensive.
I... I haven't earned
that kind of money yet.
Then why did you waste our
time with this appointment?
It was my idea. Hannah.
and it was a big mistake.
What kind of psycho
spends $17.000 on a dress?
Do you know how many clean water wells
you could build in Africa with that money?
- No. Do you?
- I bet it's a lot. you cunt.
Nice work. Dad.
Dad... what's up
with the itching?
It's fucking...
- poison ivy.
- What?
Yeah. I tried to pick
you some wildflowers.
Thought you might like them.
What?
I know what you're trying to do.
And I appreciate it.
What am I trying to do?
You're trying to make amends.
Oh. look. a daytime moon.
Your mom always used
to say they were good luck.
♪ I wandered out In
the woods for years ♪
♪ While you just
stayed in your room ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ Doo-doo-nee-nee ♪
♪ The whole of... ♪ Who's that?
- Who sings that?
- I don't know.
Colin's always playing
it. and it stuck in my head.
It's The Waterboys.
That's my generation.
Yeah. I think they're Irish. I
don't know. Colin's obsessed.
Mm. boy's got good taste.
Hey. I got an idea.
but. uh. you may hate it.
Your mom had a really
beautiful wedding dress.
And I don't know where it is
now. but your grandmother.
she'd probably have it.
We know she's a hoarder.
- Okay. It was a terrible idea.
- No.
I love it.
- How'd it go?
- Hey. Margaret. do you know
where Helen's wedding dress is?
She looked like a vagabond
whore in that dress. Why?
Okay. let's just
check the attic.
Sorry. I need a minute.
What's wrong?
You hate it?
- You hate it. right?
- No.
Don't worry. don't worry.
We'll get another one.
It's not the dress.
I love the dress.
What is it?
This wedding is gonna
be a fucking disaster.
What? No. it's not. Come
on. we're pulling it together.
We got a tent. we got the
plates. now we got a dress.
That's not what I mean.
Then what is it?
I cheated on Colin.
Okay.
Okay? That's what
you have to say to me?
- No. no.
- God. why am I not surprised?
When did this happen? Recently?
Yeah.
After you got engaged?
And I have to tell him. right?
Uh...
Not necessarily. I mean...
- Did you want to be with this other guy?
- No. God. no.
Is there any other way
that Colin might find out?
I mean. is it someone
who's around a lot?
- Do you have friends in common?
- No. Why?
Because. in that case. telling Colin
might just hurt him unnecessarily
and end your relationship.
I mean. unless...
- What?
- Well. unless
that's what you
were trying to do.
I don't know. Uh...
maybe.
Whitney...
do you want to marry Colin?
If you're asking if he's the
only person I'll ever love.
I... I have no fucking idea.
- How am I supposed to know that?
- Look. I don't think anybody knows that.
Yes. they do. Some people do.
- Colin does.
- Now. you don't know that.
You're not in his head.
For all you know. he's...
he's having major doubts. too.
- Wow.
- No. not about you. about marriage.
When I got married. I thought
that if you chose the right person.
then you'd be happy forever.
and if you were unhappy. then
they were the wrong person.
But that's just
not how it works.
- It's not?
- No. No. Marriage is...
It's not magic. It's just a
decision that you have to make
and keep on making.
over and over. to stay.
Whitney. deciding you're not ready
doesn't mean you're a bad person.
It means you know yourself much
better than I knew when I was your age.
No. I'm not hurting
Colin. I'm not doing it.
- He's my best friend.
- He'll be okay.
He'll survive.
You hurt mom so badly.
Yeah. but that was...
that was different.
We had four kids.
I don't want to ever hurt
anyone the way you hurt her.
Right.
Why did you do it?
If marriage is a choice. if you
can decide to stay. why did you go?
I don't know how to answer that.
Was it Alison?
Did you just love her
more than you loved us?
No.
What was it. then?
I don't know.
See. the thing that I don't
get is you were a good dad.
And mom was a great
mom. and we were happy.
Or at least I thought
we were. And then...
I guess I just worry that
if that wasn't real and if
that wasn't good. then...
then maybe nothing is.
Whitney. look. I fucked up.
I...
I was thinking about
myself. and I fucked up.
Which is why I want you to give yourself
the time to make the right decision.
I love you. Whit. I just
want you to be happy.
I love you. too.
Come on.
I need to change
out of this dress.
Oh. fuck.
Hello?
Noah. hi. This is Petra
Ranes from Vanity Fair.
Oh. hi. Petra.
It's been a while.
- How are you?
- I'm good.
And the piece is
really coming together.
- Great.
- I'm just doing a last
little bit of fact-checking.
if you have a second.
- Sure.
- Great.
So. do you happen to know a
woman named Eden Bishop?
- Uh... no. I don't think so.
- That's her married name.
Maybe you knew her
as Ellery? Eden Ellery?
Oh. yeah. yeah. She was my
publicist on the book tour for Descent.
That's what she said. too.
Okay?
Did you two have a relationship
beyond the professional?
Me and Eden?
She claims you pressured her into
sleeping with you on the book tour.
Does that match
your recollection?
Sorry. what did you say?
The reception here is terrible.
Eden claims you coerced her into
having sex while on the book tour together.
I'm asking if you remember
something like that happening
between you and
her during that time.
- No. Absolutely not.
- Are you sure?
- This is fucking shit! What? No!
- So that's not your memory?
- No!
- Okay. That's it. then.
I just needed a comment.
Thanks for your time.
What...
Oh. fuck.
Yes?
Hi. I'm looking
for Benjamin Cruz.
I'm Ben Cruz. Can I help you?
I just wanted to ask
about your clinic. I...
I need help.
I think I have PTSD.
Ah.
What's your name?
Gabrielle.
Very nice to meet you.
Come on inside.
Danny. Isla. meet Gabrielle.
She's here to learn
about our community.
- Hey there.
- Hey.
Hi.
I thought I was the only one
who read real books anymore.
How about I give you a tour?
I believe in the healing power
of the fresh air
and tilling the land.
Everything here has been
designed to be self-sustaining.
My patients get free lodging
in return for their
time in the garden.
So. are you a
veteran. Gabrielle?
Um. no. I'm not.
How did you find us. then?
Recommendation.
I only ask because we
mostly service ex-military.
When I was a young vet. I started
my post-service career at the VA
during what I thought was a really
exciting time for PTSD therapy.
Newer. integrative
psychotherapeutic approaches
like exposure therapy. EMDR.
They all seemed to be taking
root in the mainstream community.
But then. of course.
they were obliterated
as soon as the government
deregulated psychopharmaceutical drugs.
If vets want alternative therapies.
they have to seek them under the table.
pay out of pocket. get
treatments in secret.
If the VA finds out. people
lose their health care.
Anyway.
that's why I have
to be extra careful
when people knock on my door.
Well. you weren't that careful.
You kind of just let me in.
True.
But you have an honest face.
We grow all our own food.
There's something so satisfying
about putting your hands in the dirt.
turning the soil.
caring for the space.
and then watch
it as it bears fruit.
Here. the land that
we've taken care of
then turns around
and cares for us.
I firmly believe
if we can remember
how to care for a garden.
we can remember how
to care for each other.
Thank you.
Let's head back inside.
Get to know each
other a bit better.
So. Gabrielle.
- That's a beautiful name. by the way.
- Thank you.
Is it a family name?
Yes.
So tell me.
how can I help you?
I think I suffer from PTSD.
Okay. How does that manifest?
I can't connect with people.
I think I'm incapable of love.
Well. sometimes such
feelings are connected
to a significant loss or trauma
at an early age.
Does that resonate with you?
No.
Hmm.
Are you familiar with EMDR?
No.
It's an old form of therapy.
Nobody really understands
why it works or
how. but it does.
There's something
almost magical about it.
Mm. You don't believe in magic?
No.
Maybe that's why
you have such...
trouble with love.
Would you like to try EMDR?
Just to see if we
can get a little closer
to understanding why you came.
Sure. Why not?
Excellent.
I record all my
sessions. Do you mind?
And this is just our
standard release form.
- It's on paper.
- I know. What can I say?
I am nostalgic for
the analog world.
I suspect you are. too.
Well. take a moment.
read it through.
What's the date?
Oh. don't worry about that.
I just need your signature.
Okay. Thank you.
So...
the way EMDR works...
we pick one specific
traumatic event
and then we basically
rewrite the script
so it doesn't trigger the
same debilitating response.
Does that make sense? Good.
We can start on
any memory. really.
Is there a moment. a...
a night where you remember this.
as you say. "inability to love"
really manifesting itself.
impeding your life in some way?
I...
I had a fight with my
boyfriend recently.
Excellent.
That is the perfect thing
to unpack with this therapy.
Let's start there.
Can you please.
um. move your chair
to face me?
Good.
No. see. you need
to be a little closer.
There you go.
Okay. to begin. just follow
my fingers with your eyes.
- That makes me dizzy.
- Okay.
Let's switch to something else.
Your palms up.
There you go.
Close your eyes and
take a deep breath.
Now think back to
the night of the fight.
What do you notice?
Where are you?
I'm in my apartment.
- Where is that?
- Montauk.
How about your
boyfriend. is he there?
He's on his way.
- How do you feel?
- Scared.
Good. Go with that.
Same as before.
Tell me... what do you notice?
My apartment is warm. cozy.
There's a fire in the fireplace.
My daughter's drawings
are on the refrigerator.
It's raining outside.
Pouring. actually.
There's a storm. a bad one.
The windows are rattling.
Good. Go with that.
Now what do you see happening?
My boyfriend arrives.
He's soaking wet. He
dries himself by the fire.
How's he dressed?
Jeans and a military jacket.
He's a veteran.
Good.
Close your eyes.
Notice what he
says and go with that.
- He's angry.
- Why is he angry?
Because he's married.
and I want him
to leave his wife.
We have a fight.
I tell him that if he doesn't
leave her. I will kill myself.
Keep going.
He tells me that I'm ugly and stupid
and that nobody will ever love me.
and that the best I could
hope for is to be someone's slut.
Okay. That's enough.
EMDR doesn't
work if you're lying.
I never said those things.
I respected your mother greatly.
I would never have
spoken that way to her.
Hello. Joanie.
Hello. Ben.
I'm so glad you
are finally here.
Why don't we start again
with the same question?
How can I help you?
Did you kill my mother?
Yes.
I did.
I can only imagine what
you think of me right now.
It's all so new for you.
The truth is. I've been
thinking about you for years.
I've tried to imagine
where you've been
living your life and how.
I've awaited our reunion
with great anticipation.
Is there anything else
you want to ask me?
Anything at all?
Go back behind your desk.
I need a barrier between us.
Of course.
I want to be held
accountable. Joanie.
I've always known I would eventually
have to answer for what I did.
I welcome the opportunity.
I know this might be
hard for you to believe.
but I think of your
mother every day.
Every minute. in fact.
She is constantly with me.
Eh...
I hate myself for what I did.
Okay. so. why did you do it?
I had a psychotic break.
- What?
- When I met your mother...
the doctors at the VA
had me on a lot of drugs...
Antidepressants.
MDMA. antipsychotics.
I was losing my mind.
I couldn't sleep.
I-I was paranoid.
I started hearing voices.
I didn't tell anyone.
of course. because...
I was afraid they'd
lock me up for good.
That night...
I became a monster.
Uh. completely out of control.
What did you do to her?
Well. we had an argument
in her apartment.
as you guessed.
About what?
The fact that I was married.
- So I was right.
- Yes.
But she told me to leave.
It was me who
was begging to stay.
Why?
Have you ever met someone
who looked at you.
all of you. even
the savage parts.
and they didn't flinch?
No.
I thought she was gonna
be the one to bring me back.
restore me to the man I
was before I went to war.
That night. we
tried to make love...
and...
I found that I couldn't.
For years after Afghanistan.
I had thought the
problem was my wife.
But then. all of a
sudden. it was clear.
The problem had
been me all along.
My fate was sealed.
I would never be the
man I was before the war.
And I was never going to be
enough for Alison or any woman.
So you killed her?
I never felt such rage.
And because Alison was in
front of me. I... I directed it at her.
She said she was leaving.
She ran to the door.
And I didn't want her to go.
so I grabbed her by the arm
to try to bring her back.
and I lost my grip.
and she fell. hard.
against the bookshelf.
Before I could reach her.
this statue. a heavy
statue. it fell on her head.
And she was gone.
So...
it was an accident?
Yes. of course.
I never wanted to
hurt your mother.
I have... I have tried...
to find a way to make
what I did bearable.
I have dedicated the
last 30 years of my life
creating this place: a
safe haven for veterans.
So nobody again
will ever lose
control the way I did.
Hurt someone the
way I hurt your mother.
You didn't just hurt her.
You killed her.
Yes. and I'm sorry. Joanie.
If you're so sorry. then why
didn't you turn yourself in?
I don't know what
good it would have done.
I... I could help more people...
make more amends by
being of service to these men.
rather than waste
the rest of my life
rotting away in some cell.
Don't you think you should
have let a jury make that call?
You know who I think
should make that call?
You.
Me?
I promised myself a
long time ago. Joanie.
that when you found me...
And I knew it was a
"when." not an "if"...
That I would submit to
whatever accountability
you demanded.
and I would not resist.
So...
if you want to call
the police right now.
I'll give you my phone.
If you want to...
you want to kill me...
I'll give you my gun.
I am completely in your hands.
If I were going to kill you.
I wouldn't use a gun.
It's too quick.
Okay.
How would you do it?
I'd like to cut off your dick
and let you bleed out
like a pig until you die.
Well...
that's an option. too.
I have to go. I need to think.
Okay. but. Joanie.
you know where to find me now.
And I'm not gonna run.
I'll be right here
whenever you decide.
I have to go.
So. what are you gonna do?
I don't know.
How about calling the police?
I guess I should?
This man murdered your mother
and then sat there and gave you a
detailed description of how he did it.
That's a special
kind of psychopath.
He's a lot of things. but I
don't think he's a psychopath.
What?
He seemed sorry.
Truly sorry.
He spent his entire life
trying to make amends.
Uh. Joanie. most murderers
are sorry for what they did.
They still have to go to prison.
He said I could
kill him if I liked.
- I think that would be a mistake.
- I wasn't being serious.
- Yes. you were.
- No. I wasn't.
- I think you were.
- EJ.
Joanie. listen to me.
This problem is
above your pay grade.
There are people who specialize
in crime and punishment for a living.
That's why they're
called the "authorities."
How about we let
them decide what to do
before we take vengeance
into our own hands.
Ben may be sorry. but he was
clearheaded enough at the time
to use your mother's history
of mental illness against her
and make everyone
believe she drowned herself.
That's right.
She drowned.
They found water in her lungs.
Benjamin Cruz?
Can I help you?
I'm Detective Clark.
this is Detective Woods.
We'd like to ask you a few questions
pertaining to the death of Alison Bailey.
May we come in?
I've made my decision.
Where did you find her?
She's one of the
patients from my facility.
She went AWOL last night...
and we've been worried sick.
What?
This is her signature. committing
herself to psychiatric care.
What?
And this is my case
study for Joanie Lockhart.
She was admitted
three weeks ago.
- That's not true. None of this is true.
- Joanie suffers
from severe depression and PTSD.
Her mother tragically committed
suicide when she was 7 years old.
And lately she's been experiencing
homicidal fantasies and delusions.
- This is all horseshit.
- We have been exploring
some of them in a
safe. therapeutic space.
but. um. yesterday she
had a turn for the worse
and she threatened my life.
I'd like to cut off your dick
and let you bleed out
like a pig until you die.
That is not what I said.
That isn't your voice
on the recording?
Of course it is. but it was
meant as a hypothetical. like...
if I were to kill him.
He knew my mother.
He isn't just a random
doctor I came to see.
He was dating her when she died.
He told me that he
set up this whole clinic
because he felt like such a
shit for what he did 30 years ago.
Officers. I have
nothing to hide.
I was cleared of any wrongdoing
in Alison Bailey's death years ago.
The police ruled
it as a suicide.
Joanie just can't accept it.
She needs someone to blame.
She herself has made a
series of suicide attempts.
as you can see referenced
on pages five and six.
Ms. Lockhart.
what are you doing?
Where is it. Ben?
- Where's your fucking gun?
- There's no gun.
He said I could kill
him with it if I wanted to.
I don't have a gun. Joanie.
I run a therapeutic
center for PTSD recovery.
A gun would be a very dangerous thing
to have on these premises. wouldn't it?
Ms. Lockhart. is it
true what he's saying?
Are you a patient
at this facility?
- No. of course not.
- All right. but...
this is your signature
on this form?
I wasn't paying attention
to what I was signing.
So. you didn't read
what the form said?
You aren't listening to
me. I'm telling the truth.
I'm not the crazy one. he is.
Okay. well. why would you sign
something you didn't read. ma'am?
Because I was too busy thinking
about how I was gonna kill him.
Mr. Cruz. do you want us to remove
Ms. Lockhart from the property?
- That won't be necessary.
- Are you sure. sir?
More than anything. right
now. she needs my support.
Sorry to have wasted
your time. Officers.
Okay.
I'm gonna fucking kill you.
You can't touch me now. Joanie.
Police are watching you now.
You'll go to prison
for the rest of your life.
Your kids will grow
up without a mother.
That's not what you want. is it?
What do you know about my kids?
I meant what I said.
I thought about you over the
years. wondered how you were.
Were you watching me?
I looked you up online.
When did you know it was me?
When you took off
your sunglasses.
Why didn't you say
something then?
What was the point
of this whole exercise?
My mother was still breathing
when her body went into the water.
She didn't die in our
apartment like you said she did.
She had water in her lungs.
She fucking drowned.
Calm down.
Can I get you
something? A drink?
You wanted me
to call the police.
So you could show
them my signature
and play them the tape and
make me seem like a nutjob.
The one person left alive
who knows what you did.
You killed her. and then you
dumped her body in the water.
You made it look like a
suicide. You used her history
and you set her up just like
you set me up. didn't you?
Yes.
Why?
I didn't want to go to prison.
Oh. you're a killer.
You belong in prison.
Oh. thou shall not kill.
Well... except sometimes.
I killed people in
Afghanistan. plenty of them.
Some of them innocent civilians.
It wasn't a crime there.
Why should it be a crime here?
You took my mother from me.
I was a child.
You took her.
You know. you are
just so much like her.
When you showed up at
my door. you seemed so...
strong. so tough.
I should have
known it was a mask.
just like hers.
You're just as sad
and as frightened as she was.
Harder.
Oh.
I understand why
you came here now.
It wasn't for Alison at all.
You just want someone
to put you out of your pain.
I'm not gonna do you that favor.
I'm sorry for your pain. Joanie.
I really am.
But if I go away.
what happens to these patients?
They need me here.
You are so full of
shit. and you know it.
I've paid for my sins.
I can live with myself.
You're the one. apparently.
who cannot.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm